# Meeting #8 - 2019-12-16
## Solid Data Interoperability Panel

## Connection Info
__Connect with your computer, tablet, or smartphone:__
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/620786365

__Dial in:__
United States (Toll Free): 1 866 899 4679  
Belgium (Toll Free): 0 800 78881  
Costa Rica (Toll Free): 0800 542 5404  
Denmark (Toll Free): 8025 3112  
France (Toll Free): 0 805 541 052  
Germany (Toll Free): 0 800 723 5274  
Ireland (Toll Free): 1 800 818 263  
Netherlands (Toll Free): 0 800 023 1954  
New Zealand (Toll Free): 0 800 47 0051  
Norway (Toll Free): 800 33 083  
United Kingdom (Toll Free): 0 800 031 4727

__Access Code:__ 620-786-365

## Agenda

- Update on latest project work
- Consolidating Interoperability projects
- Discuss progress of resource metadata [proposal](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/blob/resource-metadata/resource-metadata/hypothesis.md).

## Minutes

Justin: Jamie and ericP are developing.  
… I’m providing an explanatory doc.  
… also documenting the resource metadata   
… documenting in the resource-metadata branch   
… would like feedback and help on this doc.  
… goal is to get it finalized and bikeshed it so we can submit a pull to solid/spec  
… covers (optionally bidirectional) discovery   
… covers Web Access, resource discovery, shapes, server management and configuration   
… need contributions on those points.  
… I have TODOs from the editor meeting last week.  
… Anyone got time to review?  
… would it be better if i submitted a pull to master?  
ericP: would that stand in for GoogleDoc comments?  
Justin: yeah, it’s not a declaration that it’s "done"    
Dmitir: tha’s fine; just say that in the PR.  
Justin: as we got into this, we reallized that there was so much to factor in that we needed to pick use cases and prototype.  

ericP: I’ve build small LDP server to test posting footprints etc. Including cases where two different apps/clients try to post two different footprints.  
Justin: Can you provide more information on footprints?  
ericP: We needs something to tell clients where to create new resources.  
Justin: For interop we need more than that, not only where but also what shapes they need to conform to, what permissions apply etc.  
ericP: We practically reinvented footprints proposed by Tim and Ruben   
…: I started developing something that emulates github API. As example of what different kinds of resources clients may want to create. In github, you create organizations, repos, issues etc.  
…: It seams that application knows better where to create something. For example application UI will let person decide to add photo to existin album or create new one.  
elf-pavlik: what if user wants to create new album?   
ericP: application may try to use Slug HTTP header, still server may choose to honor it or not.  
…: Jamie was implementing it in NSS, I was also implementing it in my prototype.  
…: When you create footprint, for example like on in github API, it will automatically create container ‘orgs’ and ‘users’.   When I create new org it will allow creating new repos in that organization.  
Justin: Based on our recen exploration I have few observations.  
…: For example I want to authorize someone to access something conforming to shape of ‘photo album’. But photo album may use more than one shape to structure it. We may need to think in terms of ‘collaborative unit’, set of kinds of data they may want to collaborate on.  
…: Also to reference them for Authorization in a way user can understand. So that can manage answering to the consent screen.  
Dmitri: I want to know more about protocol part of it. How to request permission to some ‘collaborative unit’.  
Justin: We’ve added some stuff on the server side, you could do it without it just clients would need to agree on things.  
…: We use WAC for giving access to other users. But we need to have a cler way to ask user about that access request.  
ericP: showing footprint example on github  
Justin: Footprint says: “This place in solid pod has this things in it, and they have this kind of metadata associated with them”.  
…: One could also add detail for authorization. For example to create question “Do you want to share this: …”. Also adding some notes about consequences of that decision.  
Elf: if we have a solid project and five individuals, we have five pods and a group pod.  
… we could deploy the same footprint in different stores.  
Justin: We were trying to look at different patterns which could use this approach. I agree that in solid we would not do it the same way.  
ericP: we also need to think about using this nested mechanism.  
ericP: uriTemplate didnt’s seem that useful until photo album example which had different kids of data.  
elf-pavlik: can one use for Non-RDFSources media types like image/.  
ericP: you could change protocol for POST and add more information . 
Justin: I discussed ‘collaboration units’ with Tim and Ruben and it made a lot of sense to them.  

…  

Justin: Having photo album footprint, one could create photo library using it.  

elf-pavlik: do we address crating resources with POST or PUT or it doesn’t matter here?  

ericP: creating footprint itself now uses POST other than that it doesn’t matter.  
…: we may need to further discuss the broader issue of generating identifiers on the client   

ericP: User have already consented application to write to some specific footprint / collaborative unit.  
…: When it comes to trust to install an app, app stores may come useful.  
