# Meeting #2 - 2019-08-26
## Solid Data Interoperability Panel

## Connection Info
__Connect with your computer, tablet, or smartphone:__  
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/620786365

__Dial in:__   
United States (Toll Free): 1 866 899 4679  
Belgium (Toll Free): 0 800 78881  
Costa Rica (Toll Free): 0800 542 5404  
Denmark (Toll Free): 8025 3112  
France (Toll Free): 0 805 541 052  
Germany (Toll Free): 0 800 723 5274  
Ireland (Toll Free): 1 800 818 263  
Netherlands (Toll Free): 0 800 023 1954  
New Zealand (Toll Free): 0 800 47 0051  
Norway (Toll Free): 800 33 083  
United Kingdom (Toll Free): 0 800 031 4727  

__Access Code:__ 620-786-365

## Agenda
1. Operational Topics
   - Reviewing and Merging Issues and Pull Requests
   - Methods of Communication
1. Review project proposals
   - [Mechanism - Data Transfer Project](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/12)
   - [Mechanism - Pod Management](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/18)
1. Status of Active Projects
   - [Data Discovery](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/tree/master/data-discovery)
   - [Data Validation](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/tree/master/data-validation)
   - [Data Portability](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/tree/master/data-portability)
   - [User Preferences](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/tree/master/user-preferences)
   - [User Profile](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/tree/master/user-profile)

## Minutes

from: https://hackmd.io/dBHO-I4YRG25Fd_5ISsuaQ?edit

### Reviewing and Merging Issues and Pull Requests

- Justin: In Solid process we tried not to dictate how panels should be run, instead we've left it up to each panel. I started working on use cases for data validation, I could review and merge my own stuff but that doesn't feel correct. I think we need convention for how we review and merge issues.
  - Dmitri: Good question, many groups have some notion of quorum for the meeting.
  - Pavlik: We can have 1 week for PR and if it has 2 ok reviews and no objections it can get merged.
  - Justin: Each project could have some people leading who preferably should review.
    - Pavlik: we can check github code owners if it could help automating it https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-code-owners
- Justin: I've been focusing on use cases for validation, I also plan to do some use cases for discovery. I see all projects as core in terms of what we need for Solid.
  - Dmitri: If work on an app, eg. TODO list it naturaly prioritizes some requirements
  - Justin: I see it moving forward with most momentum if there are projects driving it.
- Dmitri: how do you find the process of use case documents? they tend to turn on side of hypotheticals.
  - Justin: I tend to go directly to the solutionioning but I learned not to do that. I find it better to have more use cases just to have few.
  - Kjetil: I see that often it's easy to brainstorm and come up with lots of different use cases. It seems that the most valueable use cases point at things that seems hard.
  - Justin: Can we have a 'bucket' of things that we should consider but we currently can't formulate them as use case.
  - Dmitri: I want to see some negative use cases to define what we consider out of scope.
  - Justin: I write negative use cases as somethign that illustrates 'bad approach' which we try to create alternative to. Sometimes called 'misuse cases', for what Dmitri mentioned we can consider term 'out of scope use cases'.
  - Justin: Some things I see more as 'considerations' that clearly defined use cases.
  - Justin: We discussed more over all solid use cases repo

### Methods of Communication

- Justin: Overall solid mailing list doesn't get too much trafic, people may worry that they might spam many people by writting there. Should we make our own mailing list? Should we create github issues?
  - Dmitri: I find gitter chatrooms perfect for discussions. I would myself vote NO to specific mailing list.
  - Pavlik: I see gitter, github and calls enough.
  - Dmitri: I want to encourage people more to use gitter channel

### Review project proposals 

#### [Mechanism - Data Transfer Project](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/12)

- Justin: Setup by Google, Microsoft and couple of others to migrate data between various different services. I'd like that people can bring their data from those services to their Solid storages. Someone already did some work on contacts portability.
- Justin: I think we need to solve Validation, Discovery and Portability first.
- Dmitri: I would find it helpful to get idea of what kind of data we talk about. 
- Justin: I see it as good project for someone just comming to Solid and wanting to support ecosystem.

#### [Mechanism - Pod Management](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/18)

- Justin: I may have attached to my identity multiple storages hosted by different providers. I may want to use one application to manage those different storage servers.
  - Pavlik: I find it important to disambiguate IDP and RS (storage)
  - Justin: For me Pod means the resource server - storage. They still have some kind of accounts which I may want to manage. Starting from creating one and deleting one, or setting up redirection.
  - Pavlik: I see need for specific operations one may want to perform on storage
  - Dmitri: If you move account or delete permanantely, what do you want provider to return?
  - Pavlik: Other approach can encourage people to get domain and keep it as they move data between servers.
  - Justin: I think we need a way to deal with migrated or moved stuff.
  - Kjetil & Dmitri: talking about using opaque identifiers and DIDs
  - Kjetil: I have UC where I create pods for my family but i want to retain some privileges for them. Related to parental control use cases.
  - Dmitri: Our ACL system doesn't cover many scenarios, for example one can 'lock out' oneself.
  - Justin: Event if you have WebID somewhere in metadata you may need to 'prove' that you controll it.
  - Justin: I see it related to [Discoverability of root and controllers of Pods - some thoughts](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/10)

- Dmitri: which panel we discuss topic of server side metadata
  - Justin: we have project for data portability
  - Pavlik: I understand it as 'server controlled' metadata, where client doesn't have control or even access.
