# Meeting #1 - 2019-08-13
## Solid Data Interoperability Panel

## Connection Info
__Connect with your computer, tablet, or smartphone:__  
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/495961589  

__Dial in:__   
United States (Toll Free): 1 877 309 2073   
Belgium (Toll Free): 0 800 81385  
France (Toll Free): 0 805 541 047  
Spain (Toll Free): 800 900 582  
United Kingdom (Toll Free): 0 800 031 4744  

__Access Code:__ 495-961-589

## Agenda
1. Discuss Data Model Alignment vs. Data Model Alignment Mechanisms
   1. Understanding the difference
   1. How to approach a model project vs. a mechanism project
1. Review project proposals
   1. Mechanism - Data Validation
   1. Mechanism - Data Discovery
   1. Mechanism - Data Portability
   1. Model - WebID / Extended User Profile / Preferences
   1. Model - Social Feeds

## Minutes

From: https://hackmd.io/2MehDvi3RbiGH-W6jxC4IQ

# SOLID Data Interop minutes

## 1. scribe

Justin: we need scribes for meeting

## 2. public solid mailing list or other fora?

Justin: anyone nervous about writing to the Solid-wide mailing list? Do we want a panel-specific mailing list?

dmitri: general mailing list should be fine. I hate to think of tracking N different lists, one for each panel.

## 3. GoTo Meeting?

Justin: any one in this GoTo Meeting not able to connect to GoTo Meeting?

\[no response\]

## 4. Two classes of interop issues

1. data model/structures/schema
2. mechanisms

Justin: our approach to mechanisms will likely go into the Solid spec. Several of these projects are mechanism-specific. 

... E.g. data discovery is a mechanism:
... where do i find/write data?
... you could prompt the user but you'll use them up quickly.

Simon: Mark has used an ontology to create a bunch of bookmarks. If my app wants to display, edit, and add to them, have to find them, see if I can make use of the ontology, and deal with any diffrences between my app's assumptions and Mark's app's assumptions. (Would have called it a "convention", but can translate.)

Justin: We need a way that any application that calls itself a Solid spec can do this without special knowledge.
... How we specify that will differ from how we specifty specific schemas.
... "Model" could mean agreeing on ontology or shapes.
... We see well-behaved apps as essential to interop. no corrupting.

ericP: \[ontology vs. shapes\]

Simon: you can create local or private shapes, you can use SHACL and OWL.

ericP: schemas are typically more associated with purposes than data instances.

Justin: i've started tagging the [issues](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues) as model vs. mechanism in the agenda.
... aim is to examine and prioritize the issues

## 5. issues review
### [Data Validation](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/1) (#1)

Justin: if you're writing to a particular resource, the server must enforce shape constraints.
... You can't rely on clients to enforce data coherence
... We need to write up the spec for how the server
1. recognizes there's a shape constraint
2. enforces it

Simon: would there be a library of shapes or would the owner of the POD be able to define their shapes?

Justin: more the latter, though they can certainly use shapes that are out there on the Web.

ericP: \[FHIR schemas are out there on the Web\]

Justin: make use of github's thumb's up/down mechanism to voice opinions
... There's an issue around extended profiles. We should decide if it should be merged with Validation.

### [Data Discovery](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/2) (#2)

Justin: right now, an app that has authorization to a POD must be explicitly told or hard-coded.
... we're not going to get seemless interop this way.
... needs to be portable along with my data.
... goal is to create a section of the spec

Simon: is this challenging/extending type indexes?

Justin: we'll see how far away we get from the current type index system.
... It's nice that it's portable, but it's too granular ("public" vs. "private")
... but we want something that works for all kinds or data, "public" vs. "private" and specific ACLs.

Simon: prob with bookmarks is that i need to know the number assignment system and i might not want all of mine in the same place.

Justin: if we try to create lightening fast indexes for everything, we're kind of re-inventing a database.

### [Data Portability](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/6) (#6)

Justin: how do I take my data to another POD, possibly on another Solid-conformant host?

ericP: so far, Solid uses formats and magic file paths. (No Windows-like registry or Mac-like resource fork)

Simon: so this isn't just the RDF data; it's everything that's being hosted (images, etc.)

Justin: data + Metadata, shapes, and audit data

### [Extended Profile](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/5) (#5)

Dmitri: we have some expectations from your WebID Profile, but we should probably standardize it. We currently us it for: 1) key material, 2) social media user profile, and 3) prefs and settings

Justin: currently we use the WebID profile doc to determine prefs.
... this will continue the notion that the WebID Profile is the gateway to your data.
... you can have a POD that redirects to multiple stores.
... the organization has been very loose. We stuffed a lot into the publicly-accessible space. inappropriately leaky data.
... Dmitri points to a couple other issues (seeAlso, sameAs)

Dmitri: Thanks Justin, that's a perfect summary

Simon: it's pretty close to the mechanism issues.

Justin: the mechanisms we come up with will go through the profile.

Simon: my son said "I expect to see 'my accounts', not this gobbeldygook on the screen"

Justin: we want to keep the publicly exposed data at a minimum.
... some folks were surprised to see their name in the (public) WebID doc.
... e.g. I want folks to see my name if there's some level of trust.

Dmitri: Justin summarized it wonderfully. Let's standardize and minimize what's going into the Profile.
... This will help us align with other efforts like [DID](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec/)s (Decentralized Identifiers)

## CardX Proposal

* http://www.obofoundry.org/ontology/bfo.html
* https://forum.solidproject.org/t/common-core-ontology-with-linked-data/1860
* https://github.com/CommonCoreOntology/CommonCoreOntologies

Jay: CardX extends the common core ontology 'cause the Common Core Ontology is infinitely extendable so it can scale to meet the user needs.
... we've got a calendar and weather app which interop
... (weather app shows your calendar agenda)
... CommonCoreOnt is compatible with vcard vocab.
... Army has invested $7M. in ISO final standard.

Jim: the upper ontology is becoming standard.
... The CommonCoreOnt is maturing; will be ready in probably 5 years.
... There's an ISO standard and a book about the upper ontology.

ericP: is it part of OBO?
MarkJ: CommonCore extends BFO.
... CardX extends a subset of CommonCore (which is written in BFO)

Justin: the project that Dmitri proposed overlaps CardX.
... Should we think of it as on the road to Dmitri's proposal?

Dmitri: my proposal is to standardize and minimize; I don't have a specific proposal.
... is yours general-purpose?

Jim: it's general-purpose

Justin: the community, TimBL included, will have a strong opinion about what we use for the WebID.
... There are a couple approaches we could take from the CardX proposal.
... This is one of the most important porjects we could undertake.
... Should preferences be a separate model project?
... Different apps need to understand preferences.
... It's beyond app preferences, but in the Solid world, constellations of data have preferences.
... e.g. my preferred rendering of chats.
... Maybe we should split it out.

Dmitri: I agree. the Profile should just have links out.

Justin: Jim, how do you want to engage and collaborate here?

Jim: should we show more demos? Should we show how prefs should mean the same things to different apps.
... mostly interested in feedback

Dmitri: a quick write-up with some example profile.
... obviously we'll comb through the ontologies, but and example of "here's what it looks like and here's what it expresses."

Jim and Jay: can do

Jim: it takes a while to learn the CommonCoreOntology but we'll help you learn it.
... we don't want a developer to spend 100 hours learning the ontology when a consultant could help.

### [Social Feeds](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/4) (#4)

Dmitri: meant to be a framework for social apps/feeds.
... so how do you model twitter/facebook?
... a W3C WG worked on e.g. ActivityStreams
... Let's give some recommendations about social profiles and feeds.
... It sounds like consensus is that we keep it in this panel, at least for talking about the model.

## Summary

Justin: We've agreed that these are all important.
... We've surfaced another: Preferences.
... We can create folders projects for each project.
... At least for the mechanisms, we should start by capturing use cases.

Kjetil: We've gather some User Stories.
... We should be able to link each User Story to motivate each Use Case.
... Goal is to have titled User Story pages.

ericP: should we read the [User Stories](https://github.com/solid/user-stories) before constructing Use Cases?

Kjetil: yes please.

ericP: I'm concearned that we raise the bar for Use Cases

Kjetil: I think it's easy(ier?) to create User Stories.

**ACTION**: Justin to create project folders.
**ACTION**: Justin to figure out next steps for each.

Justin: \[meta\] Panels are new with this process doc. We should become smoother.
