# Meeting #7 - 2019-11-18
## Solid Data Interoperability Panel
15:30 EST, 21:30 CET

## Connection Info
__Connect with your computer, tablet, or smartphone:__
https://global.gotomeeting.com/join/620786365

minutes: https://hackmd.io/9NwtKjLsSCS-dsT5o07xVA

__Dial in:__
United States (Toll Free): 1 866 899 4679  
Belgium (Toll Free): 0 800 78881  
Costa Rica (Toll Free): 0800 542 5404  
Denmark (Toll Free): 8025 3112  
France (Toll Free): 0 805 541 052  
Germany (Toll Free): 0 800 723 5274  
Ireland (Toll Free): 1 800 818 263  
Netherlands (Toll Free): 0 800 023 1954  
New Zealand (Toll Free): 0 800 47 0051  
Norway (Toll Free): 800 33 083  
United Kingdom (Toll Free): 0 800 031 4727

__Access Code:__ 620-786-365 

## Agenda

This meeting agenda will be focused specifically on how data is organized, discovered, and authorized in a pod. Several panel members have been working extensively on this topic, and will share their finding to date, as well as look for input and collaboration from other members of the panel.

## Participants
Chair: Justin  
Scribe: ericP, Elf  
Present: ericP, Kjetil Justin, Mitzi, Jamie, Elf  

## Minutes

Justin: when we started the data-interop panel, we identified key projects  
... .. discovery  
... .. validation  
... .. portability  
... Data validation will be applied based on resource metadata.  
... As we dove in, use cases caused us to pull on this thread.  
... We got into footprints.  
... TimBL's design issues doc and Ruben's blog post say that applications need to know where to write information as much as they need to know where to find them.  
... If you're the first application that's creating new stuff, you have to know what rules to set.  
... How do you lay out the data?  
... How does that set the ACLs (R/W)?  
... How do you ask people auth questions that aren't too complicated.  
... If we look at data validation, we need to look at all of this together. If not, we'll get something brittle that only works for its developers.  
... Hard to get right 'cause you have to make it powerful, simple and secure.  
... We're working on a set of involved use cases, crossing domain and ACL boundaries  
... We're working out the shapes and the footprints.  
... Need to ask the user intuitive questions.  
... We're documenting an approach:  
... .. pod data organization  
... .. surrounding authorization model  
... .. how you discover it  
... .. how you figure out where to write it  
... I think we'll end up with something elegant but we have to brute-force our way there.  
... 1. Need intra-app interopability to RW without having one app corrupt the data.  
... But the app needs to be able to evolve.  
... 2. Collaboration between disparate entities. -- different agents and different users  
... 3. Need to minimize data exposure.  
... If only we can use it, we have failed.  
... Mainstream users need to be able to manage their data without having to think about the storage architecture.  
... 4. Data needs to be portable from one pod to another.  
... 5. Things will evolve over time. needs to be durable.  
Elf: In the access-control panel, we try to keep in mind that there's a human involved.  
... mostly when a use gets prompted with an OAuth consent screen.  
... user may be allocated a subset of the prompted ACLs.  
... the user will not look at shapes. we can't rely on the name of the shape. perhaps need a trusted directory of shapes.  
... don't want a tool to prompt for "calendar" events and in fact ask for something totally different  
... i think of it like a package manager vs. a package user. power user may install a specific PPA.  
... power user may grant permissions on shapes.  
Justin: a shape on its own is not enough to be intuitive to the user.  
... I use "collaborative unit" for a schema (shapes) and an organization (directory structure).  
... it's sort of a hybrid between a shape and a footprint.  
... knowing other apps is a hint about domain  
ericP: If we keep track of apps that are 'living' in particular area, there is not a serious data exposure.  
... It doesn't matter what shapes app registers unless it registers them in some cross-app workspace  
Elf: It's not just a personal storage but also a group storage (chats, etc.)  
... so we don't ahve a primary app. everyone may pick their own for chats, issue-tracking.  
... in most group-collaborative storage, there will be no prior knowledge about the app.  
Justin: in the org model for a pod, there's no "pod owner"; it's more about who has control over it.  
... if you're an app setting up space (e.g. wearables), you need set the organization and ACLs.  
Elf: I created an [issue](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/27)  
... you may have an agnostic admin app which takes shapes from some repo and footprint.  
... i'm not sure how that applies to individual workspaces.  
Justin: i think it's the same thing.  
... you're the admin of your own pod.  
... we've been heading towards providing:  
... .. 1. a place for apps to write their own stuff and update and evolve freely  
... .. 2. shared spaces  
... .. 3. intuitive ACLs  
... I think Michael Thornburg was going this way when he was talking about "tagging".  
... People will need context. A "comment" isn't enough; need to discriminate medical vs. @@1 comments.  
Mitzi: People process this by "implication" -- why you are sharing stuff.  
... Need to boil it down the the opperation and the dangers (how it could go wrong).  
... e.g. prompted for BP to purchase stockings and finding out you're on a distribution list.  
Justin: I've been harping on the questions we ask someone but you've added useful characterization.  
... e.g. "TotalHealth wants access to your genetic profile so it can make recommendations on what you eat.", then an average person can decide.  
...   
ericP: LDP containers and categories developers use ..  
Justin: do we go more towards the Linked Data perspective where apps self-declare.  
... we rely on the desire of app vendors to be interoperable.  
ericP: We are not building an app store, we build a platform for app stores, any communty who wants to have  
... centralized vetting can create their 'app store'.  
... we can also let people have more space if the want it.  
Justin: we are a "decentralized web" so we need to enable to make it safe.  
Mitzi: How do you structure the shapes and does that correlate with sensitivity?  
... Can you have a sliding scale?  
... E.g. can the panopticon or annoying advertizers get into your genitic data  
ericP: Jamie came up with a model private / protected / public about how app can have those different spaces  
...: private can change at will, public more shapes oriented   
...: I prefer single LDP container for shapes, but it doesn't work with hirarchical organizations of WAC  
...: WAC effectively promises people resource level access control (not just container level)  
...: sometimes one will give access to container, sometimes will make per resource exceptions  
Justin: so re sensitivity in a shape, a shape captures the nature of data.  
... clinical data is made up of many subordinate shapes.  
... the shapes relfect the composition of the data you're talking about.  
... then you can   
ericP: we still have open question, do we expect people to strucutre data that they will be able to grant independent access to any part of data  
...: they may need to move part of data to separate resource to give access to just that part  
...: shape on the other hand could describe components of data that one could see and use to grant access  
Elf: I want to distinguish beteen granting access to social agents (person/group) vs. software agents.  
... A person can say "i want to grant this *person* access, independent of what application they use"  
... the solid project may want to have a solid-only tracker.  
... the solid project will define the social agents without prior knowledge of the apps they use.  
... most apps are special-purpose. they'll only ask for perms persuant to their purposes.  
Justin: we haven't done much plumbing for this before. the AuthZ panel has been heavily focused on this.  
... we need to make more-involved use cases and make sure the approaches support them.  
... ericP, Jamie and I have been focusing on this but aren't trying to work in a vaccuum.  
... What actors will create a forum, what auth is needed, what shapes are involved?  
... Elf, if you want to create some use cases, that would be really helpful.  
[considering moving to weekly calls]  
Justin: open to that, but do we want to adjust the time, favoring folks who show up routinely?  
... This is one of the hardest parts because it involves people but it has a good opportunity to make a [useful platform].  

## summary

work out timeslots in gitter for weekly call.
