# Meeting #3 - 2019-09-09
## Solid Data Interoperability Panel

## Agenda
1. Review [Use Cases for Data Validation](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/23)

## Present

* Justin Bingham
* ericP
* elf Pavlik
* Jason Reynolds

## Minutes

from: https://hackmd.io/ur2dWf1iQd2iiHdfactgaA?view

### Use Cases for Data Validation

Review of [Pull #23](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/23), aimed at providing first milestone of use cases for shape validation in a Solid Pod.

#### Enabling shape validation on a container

- Pavlik: I find this day & month paths as implementation detail and not focused on actors and what they actually try to acomplish.
  - Justin: we can look for a way to separate application specific requirements from users/actors requirements
  - ericP: we can throw more stuff into this document and later separate it out once we see better way to organize it differently

- ericP: We need to draw distinction between protecting ourselves from malicious apps and protecting ourselves from well intended but malfunctioning apps.
  - Justin: I see malictious apps as different than this use case
  - ericP: We should calarify 'malicious apps' as out of scope for data validations

- Justin: user should be able to move their validators together with their data, some overlap with portability project.


#### Enabling shape validation on a resource

- ericP: Second writer should be able to ask system if data she wants to ask has compatibile shapes, or at least intersections.
  - Justin: We should think how that second writer arrives at that chat. Possibly discovery will come into place.
  - Jason: We may consider it as interop failure if two apps can't work with the same data.
  - Justin: We may have challenge for some other 'social' panel to figure out how to enable reuse of shapes
  - ericP: I see it pretty much as the same as vocab/ontology reuse problem
  - Justin: I think we can do better job than current state of linked data vocabs reuse.
  - ericP: systems could detect similarities between shapes.
  - Justin: I would look for intersection of LOV, github and npm to co-create shapes


#### Enabling shape validation on a container

- ericP: we should consider adding semantics to URLs, client should treat URLs as opaque but server can do whatever they want.
- ericP: it looks like here we would just need globs
  - Justin: sometimes power of regex comes very handy


---

### Additional minutes / notes from from @ericprud


Justin: can't see data interop without validation/enforcement.
... but also believe that part of the value proposition is adding cool bits.  
... [reading problem case 1]  
... most important issue is that they don't have recourse.  
... as soon as folks try to interop, everything breaks.  
... that's the quickest way to kill an ecosystem.  
elfP: I like this use case. Agree with your use case and the consequence.  
... I commented two hours ago on "enabling val on container".  
... I feel it goes too much into detail  
ericP: I went into registration 'cause I wanted to clarify what applications did.  
Justin: if we made this solely for the user, we could remove a couple bullets.  
... I moved from user-only a bit into application.  
... If there's a better way to separate these into user and app-centric, I'm interested.  
ericP: on a meta-level, is this what this panel should be doing?  
[tacit agreement]  
Justin: @elfP, do you see a better way to manage this?  
elfP: i'm fine with this. I thought made this comment but approved the PR.  
[problem case 2]  
Justin: in database migration, this happens all the time.  
[problem case 3 - (over)prompting user]  
Justin: users will not know how to handle questions.  
... There's a classic usability book called "Don't Make Me Think".  
... You don't need to read the book; the title is enough.  

Justin: can anyone think of more?  
ericP: malfeasant apps vs. broken  

(In this scope) we are not trying to protect ourselves from bad actors, just incompetence.  

Justin: I see this sitting beside ACLs.  
... If you are using NSS, you can see the ACLs as files on disk.  
... So if I want to migrate my data, I can serialize my ACLs.  
... I should be able to do the same with my shapes.  

[enabling 1]  

ericP: static analysis can show that schemas A and B have an intersection  
Justin: interesting to look at what happens before the second app shows up.  
... if B doesn't recognize As schema, it will write elsewhere.
ericP: data diffusion.  
Jason: isn't that an interop failure, i.e. two chat apps that don't recognize each other?  
Justin: agreed. we should write this up.  
ericP: like ontology re-use problem.  
Justin: app developers will decide between re-use and rolling their own.  
... we've never packaged models like this.  
... you can have two apps that use the same vocab and they're still not interoperable.  
ericP: could have lov-like tool that notices similarities in shapes  
Justin: lov + github + npm  
... can see for example schema extensions.  
... where there are standards, they're a great way to get consistency.  

[enabling 2 -- container]  
Justin: any reason to avoid regexps on URLs?  
ericP: there's a REST allergy to semantics in URLs, but that applies to other people's URLs.  
... you're free to impose semantics on your own URLs as much as you like.  
Justin: related issue: How to determine if a resource is an ACL resource.  
... in https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/31 , TimBL says "in Solid, URLs have semantics shared by client and server".  
elfP: I wouldn't want to impose e.g. date-space.  
... If folks can impose this another way, we don't need it as a requirement.  
Justin: regexp in apache give maintainers a *lot* of power.  

[enabling 3]  

Justin: people just expect their apps to work.  
... achieving that simplicity and interop  

[validating 1 and 2]  
[validating 3]  

elfP: why would a user care about Actors and ...?  
Justin: right, users don't care; developers care.  
... my inclination is to separate things into different piles.  
... but some folks want to have stuff that's mixed together so we need to develop for both.  
... this isn't a pure user use case.  
ericP: this UC is about radically different types, but you might have BPs split between cuff measurements and and arterial cannula.  
... even Justin might put those two BPs in the same container.
elfP: i don't know how discover will work, but apps will probably need to deal with both mindsets.  

[validating 4]  

elfP: @@1  

Justin: when is it reasonable to change existing data?  

[discussion of open vs. closed containers]  
