# Interoperability Panel
June  22, 2020

## Attendees

- Justin B.
- Josh C. 
- Eric P. 


## Agenda

- Ecosystem Proposal - Discuss updates for https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/45 in this branch - https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/tree/ecosystem-rdf-types

## Minutes

### Ecosystem Proposal

EP - What is the objective for this proposal? All Solid uses it, some segments use it?

JB - Should be able to have different kinds of client ecosystems that evolve over the core solid protocol. At a minimum it should be one that provides something end to end, and can be iterated upon and improved.

JC - Need something like this to make real applications, though it should evolve and improve over time. Nothing we're doing that precludes people from building their own things their own ways. Wizards can be wizards if they like, but this will allow everyone to use it.

JC - Can we link specifically to shape and shape tree docs from proposal

EP - Don't need some of the type-specific sub-properties. Can use general ones in cases like "hasApplicationRegistry", "hasApplicationRegistration".

EP - Consider different layouts for the Registrar Data Model image (e.g. more of a stacked cascading approach) to better inform the reader.

EP - Move Resources in Pod to the left on Figure 7 and keep shape trees in the middle. Resources -> Shape Trees -> Shapes. (JB - DONE)

JC - Likes data model -> structure and layout progression. Needs links to shape trees and shapes in the documents.

EP - Maybe some fancy mouseover stuff you can do there.

JC - Permission model should swap generic instance names for something more intuitive

EP - Add a footnote that explains control privileges are scoped to the trusted agent subject. 

JC - Define Selectively Trusted and Selectively Granted ahead of time.

JB - Permission model still needs some ACL examples to be added.

JB - Target is to have App Registration updated and pulled mid-week, and Data Registration draft for next panel session (next week).


