# Solid Interoperability Panel
October 6th, 2020

## Present

- Justin B
- e Pavlik
- Josh C
- ericP
- Benoit A

## Agenda

- Specification Update


## Minutes

Justin B: Reviewing latest work on interop specification

Justin B: Refactor of App Registration - https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/65

ACTION: e Pavlic, ericP, Josh to review https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/65

### Invitations

Justin: Should we standardize invitations to someone with no POD/webId?
... I think "yes", but there's a limit how much we want to dictate.
... current have ops for delivering and validating invitations.
... Use case: pod-owner Alice delivers an invitation to Celeste's email (possibly with dual). Celeste has to get a pod from a provider.
... We have models for invitaions and grants; an invitation is essentially a precursor to a grant (includes e.g. what resource is granted).
... I don't expect this to be server-side, at least until we establish good patterns.
... Is there any other work on this?

Pavlik: I think Use Cases or User Stories has a label for that. There are different starting points, e.g. webId vs. phone...

Justin: we developed models/protocol at Janeiro for the NHS work; described it at Solid World.
... I think the models and the interface to the invitation service should be standard.

Pavlik: May want to consider breaking invitation / onboarding out into it's own document

Pavlik: May not want the invitation service to be able to directly manage grants

Pavlik: example of directory of service providers managed by invitation service https://github.com/libresh/awesome-librehosters

