# Solid Data Interoperability Panel
June 29, 2020

# Present

* Justin B
* Jackson M
* Josh C
* e Pavlik
* Eric P
* Sarven C

# Agenda

* Solid World Update
* Review of latest ecosystem document update. Breakdown of changes - https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/54. Rendered version at https://solid.github.io/data-interoperability-panel/ecosystem/
* Discussing approach to data registry and data authorization

# Minutes

## Solid World Update
Sharing updates from the W3C Solid Community Group on specifications, panels.
ACTION: Mention what this panel is working on: https://www.w3.org/community/solid/wiki/Meetings#2020-07-02

## Reviewing ecosystem document updates

JB: Going through rendered version at: https://solid.github.io/data-interoperability-panel/ecosystem/

SC: Going to have issues using LDP vocab to delineate between containers and resources because LDP vocab isn't clear enough on difference between containers and non-container resources

EP: Can use logic that if there is a header stipulating container, then assume container. If it isn't there, assume it is not.

JB: Propose adding tree:container, tree:rdf-resource (not a container), tree:non-rdf-resource (binary)

EP: Propose adding a new type to the ldp spec to represent a non-container rdf resource.

SC: That may be difficult.

JB: Action item to request panel members to do a review of the text and raise issues / pulls in advance of session next week.

