# Solid Data Interoperability Panel
June 1, 2020

# Present

- Justin B
- Josh C
- Jackson M
- Eric P

# Agenda

1. **Communicating updates to the community**
1. **Solid Use Cases and Requirements** - What's needed to get use cases document submitted to solid/specification
1. **Discuss application registration** - see https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/42

# Minutes

## Updating and communicating with the community

JB: Regarding https://github.com/solid/process/issues/202
- Good feedback on how to improve panels - some in ticket, some more in live discussions
- Some feedback veered to general information organization and communication in Solid
- Not enough communication and discussion between panels/spec teams and forum

JM: Tying in Solid World should be helpful

JB: Will be posting recaps to the forums, please participate.

## Use Cases and Requirements

JB: Merged pull for https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/41. 
- Will end up in solid/specification as main use case document.
- Need to work through structure and conventions, then submit to spec repo
- Can we keep these lean while still illustrating everything we need?

## App Registration

Reviewing https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/42
- *Panel to provide feedback inline on pull*





