# Solid Interoperability Panel

## Present

- Justin B
- Josh C
- e Pavlik
- Eric P
- Dmitri Z

## Agenda

- [Shape Trees PR for Solid W3C CG](https://github.com/shapetrees/specification/pull/23)
- Project Management Scenario / Primer
- Interop spec update


## Minutes

### [Shape Trees PR for Solid W3C CG](https://github.com/shapetrees/specification/pull/23)

- Eric: We should decide if we want to give copywrite control to W3C or Solid Project.
- Justin: I was looking at various other projects like JSON-LD, DID, SPARQL 1.2 etc. All have the same boilerplate.
- Pavlik: I think we can merge #23 and close #22 with comment taht #23 has taken care of it.
- Justin: Dmitri, do you know why solid spec didn't use similar boilerplate.
- Dmitri: Group at that time didn't seem oriented at W3C format.


### Project Management Scenario / Primer

https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/60/

- Pavlik: Github label *Primer*, PR rendering (just go with netlify?)

- JB: Have submitted a request to netlify for an open source account

- Action Item: JB to update path names for spec / panel


