# Data Interoperability Panel
June 8, 2020

# Present

* Justin B
* Josh C
* Eric P
* Elf Pavlik

# Agenda

## Community Update

- Justin: People on the forum provided feedback that there is not enough collaboration happening between github and forum community. Many people frequent the forum but don't show up on github and on gitter. I've participated in couple threads on the forum and made *interoperability* category. I've made a couple of posts in that category and commited to providing more. Many people on the forum didn't seem to know about all the work that is going on. I'm going to cross post minutes from the interop panel meeting there as well. In various threads people asking how to do things in the applications they work on. For me seeing what they ask for acts as good reminder that what we do is relevant and going to benefit a lot of people.
- Pavlik: I don't know which discussions should go on forum and which on github.
- Justin: People on the forum have some really good perspectives and thoughts.
- Josh: As Solid matures we can't expect people to take every step from the beggining.
- Eric: How do you choose what you read on the forum?
- Justin: I think developers who will benefit from the work we do are most likely coming to that forum. BTW the website needs more work.
- Pavlik: I think open ended conversations can go to forum and github issues should stay actionable with clear criteria for closing them.

## Shape trees update

- Justin: Josh and Eric and I have been in productive and intensive sessions nailing down how you represent virtual hierarchies with shape trees. Today we came to good conclusions.
- ...: We were missing a way to say, if would have take a note and have shape tree for a note. When application creates notes and they are standalong thing. Than some application comes and bings a way to organize notes in notebooks. Notebooks effectively contain notes but don't 'physically' contain them. In our ecosystem document we do it this way, we have a flat structure for notes and notebooks. We miss a way to say "This notebook shapetree uses note shape trees, if you look at instance of notebook here it connects notes to notebooks". Effectively you point at district constrain in the shape which matches agains specific predicate...
- Pavlik: Do you have an example?
- Eric: https://hackmd.io/CrTSfEJ3RIysGyRQAIq-wA
- ...: I was trying to fulfil usecase from one of LDP WG ones. It overextends what Solid adapts from LDP. What we do could be consider as indirect containers.

```
<#noteReferences> st:contains <#noteRef> .
<#noteRef> st:uriTemplate "{noteName}" ; st:shape schema:note-ref ; st:uses [
  st:step <NoteST#note>; st:shapePath "/:target"
].
```
- Justin: I think that is the last missing piece of shape trees. 

## Solid Use Cases and Requirements

- Justin: People are agreeing with the format. Evaluating the set of use cases and requirements will mix with evaluating the format. How do we demonstrate that it is a good format without including examples.
- Justin: I finishe setup for bikeshed rendering using github actions. It will triger from updates on master and push it to gh-pages branch.


## Application registration

Justin - Reviewing https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/blob/master/proposals/ecosystem.bs

elf Pavlik - Lets align these with use cases and requirements in the parallel initiative. Lets tie in the authorization related items with the authz panel session.

Justin - Would be ideal if next authz panel session focuses on use cases and requirements for authorization rather than jumping straight into the proposals.






