# Solid Data Interoperability Panel
May 18th, 2020

# Present

- Justin B
- Josh C
- elf Pavlik
- Jackson M
- Eric P

# Agenda

- Panel improvements
- Use Cases
- Ecosystem Docs
    - Client Constraints
    - Application Registration

# Minutes

## Panel improvements

JB: https://github.com/solid/process/issues/202

## Use Cases

- Pavlik: [moving UCR from auth panel #41](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/41)
- Jackson: I don't think bikeshed is greatest tool for collaboration.
- Justin: Are you actively opposing using it or just worry?
- Jackson: Mostly worry.
- Jackson: Many of those use case were written down based on conversation even before panels were formed.

ACTION ITEM - Panelists to review pull (with focus on general structure) and merge result prior to next panel session.

## Ecosystem Docs

- Justin: I just want to share some updates. I've added a section on compartmentalizing data 
- Josh - Where should the text on client identification and authorization live and how much of it should live in this panel's deliverables?
- Josh - This should likely be codified in authn / authz panels
- Pavlik: asking about Solid - Client Security Dynamics https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QFLLAnNoNQZBnUosGO5bsP-KS_slFZxVlWoJh80Khbw/edit#heading=h.ikilb8q8ujuh
- Justin: Discussed section pulls from that document, I think we still need broader explaination to live somewhere. WebID-OIDC spec needs to say how client identifier gets provided. 

ACTION ITEM - File a work item in a place TBD where client security dynamics for solid are explained and iterated upon.

ACTION ITEM - Request - publish ahead of time before we discuss in the panel session. +1 JB, +1 JC, +1 JM, +1 EP
