# Solid Interoperability Panel
June 15th, 2021

## Present

- Justin B
- Eric P
- Jamie F
- Juliette

## Agenda

- Shape Tree Update
- [Referenced Data Grant - improving ergonomy of traversal #124](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/124)

## Actions

- elf Pavlik: to make PR addressing 124
