
# Solid Interoperability
August 3rd, 2021

## Present

- Justin B
- Juliette C
- Alexander JP
- Angel A
- Barath
- Jamie F
- e Pavlik

## Agenda

* Pull Requests
    * [Add elf Pavlik as Editor](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/144)
    * [Delegated grants, dataOwner and iriPrefix #145](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/145)
* Issues
    * [Define usage of Shape Path for Data Grant with InheritInstances scope #131](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/131)
* Topics
    * TS implementation [initial public API](https://github.com/janeirodigital/sai-js/pull/11/files?short_path=ad5e0b1#diff-ad5e0b18a72ee07595a792a70a06c12994dc3cc59a9fcebd972b5f60675c8932)
    * Possibility of including information about `shapetree:focusNode` in the document itself
    * Catalog changes needed for spec based on recent consensus decisions


## Minutes

### [Add elf Pavlik as Editor](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/144)

JB: Have proposed elf Pavlik as editor of interoperability spec (No vetoes) - merged

### Reviewing TS Implementation

See: [initial public API](https://github.com/janeirodigital/sai-js/pull/11/files?short_path=ad5e0b1#diff-ad5e0b18a72ee07595a792a70a06c12994dc3cc59a9fcebd972b5f60675c8932)

Pavlik: *Walking through shared public interface*

Pavlik: Will be doing a release this week, authorization agent functionality should be ready in the next two months
