# Solid Interoperability Panel
June 29th, 2021

## Agenda

* Issues
    * [Consider generalizing Application Registration to Agent Registration](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/132)
    * [Define usage of shape path for data grant with inheritinstances](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/131)
* Topics
    * sai-js update
    * shapetrees update
    * Primer - moving snippets to an Appendix


## Minutes


