# 2021-07-27 Solid Interoperability

https://meet.jit.si/solid-data-interoperability

## Present

- Justin B
- elf Pavlik
- Jamie F
- Hannes R
- Juliette C

## Agenda

Issues:
* [Replace broad Remote Data Grants with Data Consent](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/143)

## Present

## Minutes

### [Replace broad Remote Data Grants with Data Consent](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/143)

PAVLIK: *Walking through issue and diagram*

See diagram at https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/143#issuecomment-887542523

JB: +1 to pursuing this approach

### Breaking up the spec into smaller sections

JB: Optimizing / reducing the specification?

PAVLIK: Next rev of the spec will be much optimized. Less important to break up.

PAVLIK: Recommend pulling the operations out of the spec into their own document.  JB +1

HANNES: Can be confusing where the overlap is between work of authz panel and the authz related items here

PAVLIK: Generally the work is complementary, but we are addressing a segment of authz here.

JB: Propose that we do the next rev, and pull operations out, and then see if there is still a tension in terms of the size.

## Actions

* Topic Item for next week - Bob as Trusted Agent for Alice - which Authorization Agent does Bob use?

