# W3C Solid Community Group: Data Interoperability Panel

* Date: 2021-10-05T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-data-interoperability
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/data-interoperability-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel


## Present

- Justin B
- Barath
- elf Pavlik
- Eric Prud'hommeaux

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribe Selection

- Justin
- elf Pavlik

### Introductions

---


## Agenda

### Actions from last week

### IRI Prefix

https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/120

eP: Originally this was posted for Data Registrations since this was
the only thing applications were using. Now authorization agent creates
different things in different places. Need to decided whether to use
the same pattern in other places. First place is Access Consent Registry.
Authorization Agent has to know how to create IRIs for them.

JB: does the server need to understand iriPrefix?

eP: Primarily used for client managed triples. Client has to understand
how the server operates.

JB: Confirming that iriPrefix would be equivalent to Data Registration in 
conformant solid hierarchical containment. (eP: YES)

eP: This is more for storages that don't work with hierarchical containment.
Client relying on iriPrefix just needs to understand how to use the
iriPrefix. The party adding the iriPrefix to the container 
(e.g. the Authorization Agent) needs to know how the storage operates 
(hierarchical namespace vs. flat namespace).

JB: #120 - covers Data Registry, Agent Registry, Access Consent Registry?

eP: Anything that we use container for.

JB: would you expect that data itself would use iriPrefixes

eP: good question - in that case it could be better as server managed. pragmatic way
could be to put this on hold, and then push upstream to resolve on solid protocol
level for how non-hierarchical containers can work. look at it on the storage
level instead (so that server could manage it).

### Update on Specification Progress

https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/projects/1

Closed: 

* https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/142
* https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/184
* https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/189
* https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/181
* https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/191
* https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/151
* Editorial review and adjustment of shape trees


JB: We defined Data Grants as immutable
JB: We refactored Access Needs section. Especially Access Needs Decorators which provide i18n
Barath: Is part of the confusion that decorator is used to mean something different?
JB: The word is used in different contexts. I'm open to better naming.
Barath: Tooltip is being used in UI for description of element.
JB: In simplest sense it's access description or explanation.


Current-focus / In-progress:

* https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/179

Barath: I've looked at some inrupt docs on consent. I need to compare it with interop spec.
eP: It would be great to start on Trusted Grants and delegation chains. This would
take care of former `acl:Control` scenario.
JB: I see various implications on requiring Write on the container to be able to create or update contained resources.


## Action Item

- ACTION: eP update #120 with agreed approach (see minutes above) and make issue in the main protocol spec
- ACTION: JB to update "Access Decorators" to "Access Descriptions"
