
# 2021-07-20 Solid Interoperability

https://meet.jit.si/solid-data-interoperability

## Agenda

* [Separate each Data Grant from Access Grant PR#141](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/141)
* [consider alternatives for app registration discovery I#91](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/91)
* [Data Grant should include information about who owns the data I#140](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/140)
* [Data Grants - new diagrams (+ renaming suggestions)](https://hackmd.io/s_w3eSF3RBSWY-OMhxPwig?view)
* [Create more specific shapes for Data Grant - one per data grant scope I#109](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/109)
* [Define usage of Shape Path for Data Grant with InheritInstances scope I#131](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/issues/131)

## Present

## Minutes

## Actions

- Consider switching naming for: 
    - Data Registration -> Data Collection
    - Remote Data Registrati
