# W3C Solid Community Group: Data Interoperability Panel

* Date: 2022-11-21T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-data-interoperability
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/data-interoperability-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel

## Present

* elf Pavlik
* Wouter Termont
* Laurens Debackere
* Justin Bingham

### Regrets

* ...

---

## Announcements

### New meetings schedule

eP: bi-weekly on Mondays at 15:00UTC => next meeting on 2022-11-21T15:00:00Z

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribe Selection

* Pavlik

## Agenda

* Review open PRs
* Discuss roadmap
  * Authorization flow
  * Get WAC on board
  * Separate into smaller specs (out of time)
  * Cleanup smaller issues (out of time)

## Minutes

### Review open PRs

Overview: https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pulls

#### [#253 Add authz flow diagram for social agent sharing access](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/253)

* eP: I'm concerned about creating access need in the app. Can we just pass IRI of the resource to AA?
* WT: Would AA generate the access need?
* eP: I think we don't need an access need here; it would be needed if Bob wants to request access from Alice. Here Alice initiates the flow.
* WT: Let's say Alice wants to share a Project with Bob, specifically title and description, and only one item. How do you describe it to authorization agent?
* eP: AA should be able to show tasks based on shape tree reference. 
* WT: The app would have better UI to select exactly what user wants to share.
* eP: I agree, we can have two options: to pass just IRI, or create an access need in the app.

ACTION: Pavlik to merge and create follow up issue

#### [Access Needs for Public Resources #254](https://github.com/solid/data-interoperability-panel/pull/254)

* LD: I recall that idea of public access modes wasn't fitting that well.
* ...: We were looking into fitting it into dedicated set of registries.

ACTION: To rething it for next meeting.

* WT: Whan talking with people working on type indexes. I was thinking about introducing a Public Agent and giving it all the data that would be public. Also dedicated registry would be an option.
* LD: If you stumble across such pod you would need a way to discover those public resources.
* WT: I mentioned that AA could sync the data granted to public agent with type indexes.
* eP: Public Agent Registration would act like Public Type Index.
* WT: Wouldn't it diverge from how other agent registrations work?
* eP: I think it will work exactly the same Agent Registration -> Access Grant -> Data Grants
* LD: I don't think we should aim to keep type indexes alive any longer than needed.
* eP: I agree, we just need to provide all the equivalent functionality.

### Roadmap

#### Authorization Flow

* eP: I'm aware about two diverging implementations, due to spec currently not including details.
* ...: I implemented flow using simple redirect to AA with `client_id`
* ...: AFAIK Digita implemented flow following [OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9126) â€” [An overview of the temporary use.id authorization procedure
](https://docs.use.id/docs/an-overview-of-the-useid-authorization-endpoints)
* WT: We don't follow PAR but have something very similar. Our clients create a request in the AA endpoint, and once user approves in app or via email (given no AA at this moment).
* eP: On use.id diagram, you have separate client front-end and client back-end. Is it just an implementation detail?
* WT: WAC lacks client identification, so we started by having all our clients having a backend, which does the calls to our API.

ACTION: Pavlik to create issue proposing reconciliation of both approaches, possibly PAR based

* WT: IMO simple redirect can be more intuitive
* LD: In theory, AA could have different methods supported. For example, PAR endpoint, also extend it to what Inrupt is implementing with access requests and access grants.
* eP: I think it's based on VC API
* LD: I don't think there has been much movement from Inrput. Aaron was planning to write down a proposal.

#### Invite Aaron to align specs

* LD: Implementation only uses ACP rule, just contains the type of the VC

#### Get WAC on board

* WT: Since WAC does not support discrimination based on the client, it's practically impossible to use SAI with it; or is that different in anyone's opinion?
* ...: [WAC#81](https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/81) has been open for over a year, but it seems no one will move until there is some implementation. 
* ...: I could try to open a PR to get it into CSS.
* eP: ???
